# Transformer Exploration for News Summarization :newspaper:

This project explores Transformer-based models inspired by the paper [*Attention Is All You Need*](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762). We use a Transformer model for **news article summarization** using the [Kaggle News Summarization dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sbhatti/news-summarization):

---

## How to use the code

The code for this project is available in a modular format. All utility functions are organized into `.py` files, while a Jupyter notebook (`TextSummarization.ipynb`) orchestrates their execution.

Here’s how you can use the repository:

1. **Clone the repository and install requirements** :
```
git clone https://github.com/pafruchtenreich/ml-project-transformers-mlops.git
cd ml-project-transformers-mlops
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. **First run**:

You'll need to download the data from scratch and you may want to retrain the model.
```
python main.py --reload_data True --retrain_model True
```
You can as well choose to use the weights saved in the repository. The folder `model_weights/` contains checkpoints for the Transformer model, you can use these to generate summaries without retraining.
```
python main.py --reload_data True
```
3. **Subsequent runs** : The data and the weights are now saved so the following command is enough
```
python main.py
```
This will load the trained model, load locally saved data, run inference and save results in the output/ folder.

4. **Examine generated summaries** :page_facing_up::
   - The folder `model_predictions/` holds sample outputs generated by the Transformer model.

---

## Results and Experiments

The model was trained on an NVIDIA A100 GPU with 40 GB of high-bandwidth memory :computer:

| Model                        | ROUGE-1 | ROUGE-2 | ROUGE-L | Train Time (ep)  | Params  |
|------------------------------|---------|---------|---------|------------------|---------|
| Transformer                  | 0.20    | 0.04    | 0.15    | ~ $1.6 \times 10^4$ s (25) | $1.25 \times 10^7$  |

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

MIT

## References

Inspired by the original *Attention is all you need* paper [1] and implementation.

[1] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez, L. Kaiser, I. Polosukhin, [*Attention Is All You Need*](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762)

```
@misc{vaswani2023attentionneed,
      title={Attention Is All You Need},
      author={Ashish Vaswani and Noam Shazeer and Niki Parmar and Jakob Uszkoreit and Llion Jones and Aidan N. Gomez and Lukasz Kaiser and Illia Polosukhin},
      year={2023},
      eprint={1706.03762},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762},
}
```
